The job of a machine
learning engineer
would be much simpler if
the only thing we
ever had to do was
do well on the holdout test set.
As hard as it is to do well
in the holdout test set,
unfortunately, sometimes
that isn't enough.
Let's take a look at some of
the other things we
sometimes need to
accomplish in order to
make a project successful.
We've already talked about
concept drift and
data drift last week,
but here are some additional
challenges we may have to
address for a production
machine learning project.
First, a machine learning system
may have low average
test set error,
but if its performance
on a set of
disproportionately important
examples isn't good enough,
then the machine learning
system will still
not be acceptable for
production deployment.
Let me use an example
from Web search.
There are a lot of
web search queries
like these: Apple pie recipe,
latest movies,
wireless data plan,
I want to learn about
the Diwali Festival.
These types of queries
are sometimes called
informational or
transactional queries,
where I want to learn
about apple pies or
maybe I want to buy a new
wireless data plan and you
might be willing to forgive
a web search engine
that doesn't give you
the best apple pie recipe
because there are a
lot of good apple
pie recipes on the Internet.
For informational and
transactional queries,
a web search engine wants to
return the most relevant results,
but users are willing to forgive
maybe ranking the best result,
Number two or Number three.
There's a different type of
web search query
such as Stanford,
or Reddit, or YouTube.
These are called
navigational queries,
where the user has a
very clear intent,
very clear desire to
go to Stanford.edu,
or Reddit.com, or YouTube.com.
When a user has a very
clear navigational intent,
they will tend to be very
unforgiving if a
web search engine
does anything other than
return Stanford.edu as the
Number one ranked results and
the search engine
that doesn't give
the right results will quickly
lose the trust of its users.
Navigational queries
in this context are
a disproportionately
important set of
examples and if you have
a learning algorithm
that improves your average
test set accuracy for
web search but messes up
just a small handful of
navigational queries,
that may not be acceptable
for deployment.
The challenge, of course,
is that average test set accuracy
tends to weight all
examples equally,
whereas, in web search,
some queries are
disproportionately important.
Now one thing you
could do is try to
give these examples
a higher weight.
That could work for
some applications,
but in my experience,
just changing the weights
of different examples
doesn't always solve
the entire problem.
Closely related to this
is the question of
performance on key
slices of the data set.
For example, let's
say you've built
a machine learning algorithm for
loan approval to decide who is
likely to repay a
loan and thus to
recommend approving certain
loans for approval.
For such a system,
you will probably want to make
sure that your system does not
unfairly discriminate
against loan applicants
according to their ethnicity,
gender, maybe their location,
their language, or other
protected attributes.
Many countries also have laws or
regulations that mandates
that financial systems
and loan approval processes not
discriminate on the basis of
a certain set of attributes,
sometimes called
protected attributes.
Even if a learning algorithm for
loan approval achieves high
average test set accuracy,
it would not be acceptable for
production deployment if it
exhibits an unacceptable level
of bias or discrimination.
Whereas the A.I. community
has had a lot of
discussion about
fairness to individuals,
and rightly so because this is
an important topic we have
to address and do well on,
the issue of fairness or
performance of key slices also
occurs in other settings.
Let's say you run an
online shopping website,
so an e-commerce website
where you advocate and sell
products from many
different manufacturers
and many different
brands of retailers.
You might want to make sure that
your system treats
fairly all major user,
retailer, and product categories.
For example, even if
a machine learning system
has high average
test set accuracy,
maybe it recommends better
products on average.
If it gives really
irrelevant recommendations
to all users of one ethnicity,
that may be unacceptable,
or if it always pushes products
from large retailers and
ignores the smaller brands,
that could also be harmful
to the business because
you may then lose
all the small
retailers and it would
also feel unfair to build
a recommender system
that only ever recommends
products from the large
brands and ignores
the smaller businesses or it had
a product recommender that
gave highly relevant
recommendations,
but for some reason would
never recommend
electronics products,
then maybe the retailers
that sell electronics
would be quite
reasonably upset
and this may not be
the right thing for the retailers
on your platform or for
the long term health of your
business even if the average
test set accuracy shows that by
not recommending
electronics products,
you're showing slightly
more relevant results
to your users for some reason.
One thing you learn
later this week
is how to carry out analysis on
key slices of the data
to make sure that
you spot and address potential
problems like these.
Next is the issue of rare classes
and specifically of skewed
data distributions.
In medical diagnosis,
it's not uncommon
for many patients not to
have a certain disease,
and so if you have
a data set which is
99 percent negative examples
because 99 percent of
the population doesn't have
a certain disease but
one percent positive.
Then you can achieve
very good tested accuracy by
writing a program that
just says print "0",
don't even [inaudible] just
write this one line of
code and you have 99 percent
accuracy on your dataset.
But clearly, print "0" is not
a very useful algorithm
for disease diagnosis.
By the way, this
actually did happen
to me once where my
team had trained
a huge neural
network found we had
99 percent average
accuracy and we found and
achieved it by printing
"0" all the time,
so we basically trained a giant neural
network that did
exactly the same
thing as print "0",
and of course, when
we discovered,
we then went back
to fix the problem.
Hopefully this won't
happen to you.
Closely related to the issue of
skew data distributions
which is often
a discussion of
positive and negatives
is accuracy on rare causes.
I was working with my friend
Pranav Ross Baker and
others on diagnosis
from chest X-rays
and we were diagnosing
causes and we were
working on deep learning to
spot different conditions.
There were some relatively
common conditions,
these are technical
medical terminology,
but for a medical
condition called effusion,
we had about 10,000 images and so
we were able to achieve a
high level of performance,
whereas for much rarer
condition hernia,
we had about a hundred images and
so performance was much worse.
It turns out that from a
medical standpoint is not
acceptable for diagnosis system
to ignore obvious
cases of hernia.
If a patient shows up and
an X-ray clearly shows
they have hernia,
a learning algorithm
that misses that
diagnosis would be problematic,
but because this was a
relatively rare class,
the overall average
tested accuracy
of the algorithm
was not that bad,
and in fact the algorithm
could have completely
ignored all cases of hernia and
it would have had only
a modest impact on
this average test accuracy,
because cases of hernia were
rare and the Avrum could
pretty much ignore it
without hurting this average
tested accuracy that much if
average tested accuracy gives
equal weight to every single
example in the test set.
I have heard pretty much this
exact same conversation too
many times in too many companies
and the conversation
goes like this,
a machine learning engineer says,
"I did well in the test set!",
this works, let's use it,
and a private owner or
business owner says,
"but this doesn't work for my
application" and the machine
that the engineer replies,
"but I did well on the test set!"
my advice to you,
if you ever find yourself
in this conversation,
is don't get defensive.
We as a community have built
lots of tools for doing
well on the test set,
and that's to be celebrated.
I think it's great,
but we often need to
go beyond that because just doing
well on the test set isn't enough
for many production applications.
When I'm building a
machine learning system,
I view it as my job not just
to do well on the test set,
but to produce a machine
learning system that
solves the actual business
or application needs,
and I hope you take a
similar view as well.
Later this week, we'll go
through some techniques,
usually involving error analysis,
maybe air analysis on slices of
the data that will allow
you to spot some of
these issues that
require going beyond
average tested accuracy
and help you with
tools to tackle these
broader challenges as well.